well that's actually consistent with my
expectations as to when they might pull
back some of the quantitative easing I
thought that it was really notable that
in the minutes only one member said that
they should really begin it immediately
but it seemed as though there was
somewhat of a consensus that they could
moderate the pace of tapering if you
want to put it that way as far as that
they could increase their asset
purchases if economic conditions worn so
it's actually fairly consistent with my
expectations that they would begin
moderating around the middle of the year
and perhaps stop purchasing by the end
of the year well the question is of
course this was before the the job March
jobs report was released does that
change anybody's thoughts about how the
fed is going to react and maybe think
that they were more hawkish in these
minutes than they are today it is
possible that it has changed since the
meeting actually took place because of
how bad those job numbers work but I
would point out that they were I
actually pointing out in those minutes
themselves that a lot of the strength
was coming coming from a basically
sustained consumer spending and the
prospect for continued business spending
so obviously they were making mention of
the labour market in the minutes but I
don't think that that one jobs report is
really going to change anything if
anything it will maybe delay by a month
or a meeting perhaps as to when they
actually begin to taper their asset
purchases but nothing really all that
dramatic now Brian does this alter
strategy in any way because you're a
biocide firm you invest across asset
classes on behalf of other people does
any kind of commentary from this change
your fundamental view about why the
investment environment is the way it is
right now and what it'll be like in the
future Brian well thankfully for me it
doesn't actually change anything because
was consistent with my expectations but
I could see how some people might view
these minutes is saying that the Fed
might actually continue their asset
purchases for a little bit longer than
what was originally anticipated if
people were going in expecting that they
were going to begin tapering at around
let's say June they might now be
thinking that well maybe they'll begin
around july because of those bad jobs
numbers and also since the money they
begin to actually try to substantiate or
put a little bit of meat around what
they
by what is a substantial improvement in
labor market conditions and we're
nowhere close to being there yet well
and then you wonder you know and I know
Brian you've talked about this about you
know when that happens if that means
this the so-called bond bubble is going
to burst and I wonder how you could
actually see you know what are the
indications of that that actually might
happen if we're getting these early
indications from the Fed I think that
what we might see is the Fed begin to
tapering and actually markets beginning
to move in anticipation of let's say
around what the summary of economic
projections are so when the federal
reserve releases those at every other
meeting people might key in on that and
say is the possibility of the fed
tightening coming sooner or is it going
to be coming later and that could create
a little bit of volatility in terms of
yields but I don't think we're actually
going to see any sustained increase in
yields across the board until the Fed
actually begins raising that federal
funds rate it's basically what we saw in
2004 is that the Fed they were so
transparent with what they were doing it
didn't really take anybody by surprise
so as long as the Fed is very
transparent and they haven't really
begun to sustainably increase the
federal funds rate I don't see any
prospect of yields moving significantly
higher well here's an interesting thing
they do put out their summary of
projections including what they think is
going to happen the interest rates it's
a their famous bubble chart and in 2014
5 members of the FOMC think that
interest rates the Fed Funds rate not QE
but the Fed Funds rate is going to be
higher with one person thinking it's
going to be a 2.75 percent then when you
get into 2015 which is the year they've
suggested they would start at least
raising rates that you get to the six
and a half percent unemployment rate
you've got all of them but one
suggesting that interest rates are going
to be higher in a range from 25 one
person to 25 basis points one person at
four and a half percent Wow so they
think that you could go to the course
half percent that is by mid-2010 dove
2015 one assumes now the majority is
clustered around about a half percent to
one and if anyone who thought that this
was going to be gradual if you look at
that maybe there's a chance that's not
going to be great certainly is it yeah
but what if I don't see them but what
about the
transparency of this i mean we're
putting all of this out right it is the
idea that that the Fed is telling us all
of this stuff just so that we can temper
our expectations or get used to this
idea that we could have higher interest
rates sometime soon without there being
a shock to the overall market can they
do that Brian that's the question can
they can they manipulate what you do yes
well I honestly I think that they can
and it's actually the lesson if that you
can draw from say the 1994 experience
versus the 2004 experience 1994 februari
forth 1994 first time they released a
policy statement it was so vague and
opaque nobody really knew what they were
doing it couldn't everybody is sort of
in a tizzy as to what's going on in the
fixed income market everything really
sold off at that point 2004 there were
much more transparent so maybe 2014 it's
going to be even more transparent
they're practicing what i would call
like a wikileaks approach to
transparency where it's a radical
transparency they effectively want
people to know what they've been having
for breakfast in order to make some of
these decisions to see how those changes
let's read all the tea leaves and dumb I
mean what I've been surprised though you
know despite it maybe some of the
traders had actually read closer in to
this report like what Mike has just done
we'd see more selling right now there's
not much reaction you're not seeing a
whole bunch of reaction only because at
least for now this program is still in
place these are expectations and like
Mike was pointing out these things came
out before the jobs now I tell you if we
had if we had had a strong close to
200,000 jobs reported March we would be
seeing a massive sell-off right now that
is yet one thing I would point out
though is you have to remember that the
partisan all that that's for all of the
participants and so what you really need
to focus on our who are the members what
are they expecting their the voting
members the ones who actually make the
policy decisions